ADA1O1|Drama, Grade 9, Open|This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms and techniques, using material from a wide range of sources and cultures. Students will use the elements drama to examine situations and issues that are relevant to their lives. Students will create, perform, discuss, and analyze drama, and then reflect on the experiences to develop an understanding of themselves, the art form, and the world around them.|Prerequisite: None
AMI1O2|Instrumental Music - Brass, Grade 9, Open |Music - Brass| Prerequisite: None
AMS1O1|Instrumental Music - Strings, Grade 9, Open|Music - Strings|Prerequisite: None
AMV1O1|Music - Vocal/Choral, Grade 9, Open|Music - Vocal/Choral|Prerequisite: None
NAC1O1|Visual Arts - Expressions of Aboriginal Cultures, Grade 9, Open|Visual Arts - Expressions of Aboriginal Cultures|Prerequisite: None
ADA2O1| Drama, Grade 10, Open|This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms, conventions, and techniques. Students will explore a variety of dramatic sources from various cultures and representing a range of genres. Students will use the elements of drama in creating and communicating through dramatic works. Students will assume responsibility for decisions made in the creative and collaborative processes and will reflect on their experiences|Prerequisite: None 
AMI2O1|Instrumental Music - Band, Grade 10, Open|Instrumental Music - Band|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMS2O1|Instrumental Music - Strings, Grade 10, Open|Instrumental Music - Strings|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMV2O1|Music - Vocal/Choral, Grade 10, Open|Music - Vocal/Choral|Prerequisite: Unknown
AVI2O1|Visual Arts, Grade 10, Open|This course enables students to develop their skills in producing and presenting art by introducing them to new ideas, materials, and processes for artistic exploration and experimentation. Students will apply the elements and principles of design when exploring the creative process. Students will use the critical analysis process to reflect on and interpret art within a personal contemporary, and historical context|Prerequisite: None
ADA3M1|Drama, Grade 11, University/College Preparation|This course requires students to create and perform in dramatic presentations. Students will analyze, interpret, and perform dramatic works from various cultures and time periods. Students will research various acting styles and conventions that could be used in their presentations, and analyst the functions of playwrights, directors, actors, designers, technicians, and audiences|Prerequisite: Drama, Grade 9 or 10, Open
AMI3M1|Instrumental Music - Band, Grade 11, University/College|Instrumental Music - Band|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMS3M1|Instrumental Music - Strings, Grade 11, University/College|Instrumental Music - Strings|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMV3M1|Music - Vocal/Choral, Grade 11, University/College|Music - Vocal/Choral|Prerequisite: Unknown
AVI3M1|Visual Arts, Grade II, University/College Preparation|This course enables students to further develop their knowledge and skills in visual arts. Students will use the creative process to explore a wide range of themes through studio work that may include drawing, painting, sculpting, and printmaking, as well as the creation of collage, multimedia works, and works using emergent technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process when evaluating their own work and the work of others. The course may be delivered a comprehensive program or through a program focused on a particular art form (c.g.photography, video, computer graphics, information design)|Prerequisite: Visual Arts, Grade 9 or 10, Open
ADA4M1|Drama, Grade 12, University/College Preparation|This course requires students to experiment individually and collaboratively with forms and conventions of both drama and theatre from various cultures and time periods. Students will interpret dramatic literature and other text and media sources while learning about various theories of directing and acting. Students will examine the significance of dramatic various cultures, and will analyze how the knowledge and skills developed in drama are related to their personal skills, social awareness, and goals beyond secondary school.|Prerequisite: Drama, Grade 11, University College Preparation
AMI4M1|Instrumental Music - Band, Grade 12, University/College|Instrumental Music - Band|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMS4M1|Instrumental Music - Strings, Grade 12, University/College|Instrumental Music - Strings|Prerequisite: Unknown
AMV4M1|Music - Vocal/Choral, Grade 12, University/College|Music - Vocal/Choral|Prerequisite: Unknown
AWQ4M1|Visual Arts - Photography, Grade 12, University/College|Visual Arts - Photography|Prerequisite: Unknown
AVI4M1|Visual Arts, Grade 12, University/ College Preparation|This course focuses on enabling students to refine their use of the creative process when creating and presenting two- and three-dimensional art works using a variety of traditional and emerging media and technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process to deconstruct art works and explore connections between art and society. The studio program enables students to explore a range of materials, processes and techniques that can be applied in their own art production Students will also make connections between various works of art in personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural contexts|Prerequisite: Visual Arts, Grade I1. University College Preparation
AWD4M1|Visual Arts - Visual Design, Grade 12, University/College| Visual Arts - Visual Design|Prerequisite: Unknown
BTT2O1|Information & Communication Technology, Grade 10, Open|Information & Communication Technology|Prerequisite: Unknown
BAF3M1|Financial Accounting Fundamentals, Grade 11, University/College Preparation|This course introduces students to the fundamental principles and procedures of 	accounting. Students will develop financial analysis and decision-making skills that will them in future studies and/or career opportunities in business. Students will acquire an understanding of accounting for a service and a merchandising business, computerized accounting, financial analysis, and current issues and ethics in accounting|Prerequisite: None
BDI3C1|Entrepreneurship: The Venture, Grade 11, College Preparation|This course focuses on ways in which entrepreneurs recognize opportunities, generate ideas, and organize resources to plan successful ventures that enable them to achieve their goals. Students will create a venture plan for a student-run school-based or summer business. Through hands-on experiences, students will have opportunities to develop the values, traits, and skills most often associated with successful entrepreneurs.|Prerequisite: None
BMI3C1|Marketing: Goods, Services, Events, Grade 11, College Preparation|This course introduces the fundamental concepts of product marketing, which includes the marketing of goods, services, and events. Students will examine how 	trends, issues, global economic changes, and information technology influence consumer buying habits. Students will engage in marketing research, develop marketing strategies, and produce a marketing plan for a product of their choice.|Prerequisite: None
BAT4M1|Financial Accounting Principles, Grade 12, University/College Preparation|This course introduces students to advanced accounting principles that will prepare them for postsecondary studies in business. Students will learn about financial statements for various forms of business ownership and how those statements are interpreted in making business decisions. This course further develops accounting methods for assets and introduces accounting for partnerships and corporations.|Prerequisite: Financial Accounting Fundamentals, Grade 11, University/College Preparation
BOH4M1|Business Leadership: Management Fundamentals, Grade 12 University/College Preparation|This course focuses on the development of leadership skills used in managing a successful business. Students will analyze the role of a leader in business with a focus on decision making, management of group dynamics, workplace stress and conflict, motivation of employees, and planning. Effective business communication skills, ethics, and social responsibility will be emphasized throughout the course.|Prerequisite: None
CGC1D1C|Issues in Canadian Geography, Grade 9 Academic CGCID|This course examines interrelationships within and between Canada's natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live.|Prerequisite: None
CGC1P1|Issues in Canadian Geography, Grade 9 Applied CGCIP|This course focuses on current geographic issues that affect Canadians. Students will draw on their personal and everyday experiences as they explore a range of issues, including food and water supplies, competing land uses, and interactions with the natural environment, developing their awareness that issues that affect their lives are interconnected with issues in other parts of the world. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate choices related to sustainable living in Canada|Prerequisite: None
CHV2O3|Civics and Citizenship, Grade 10, Open|This course explores rights and responsibilities associated with being an active citizen in a democratic society. Students will explore issues of civic importance such as healthy schools. community planning, environmental responsibility, and the influence of social media, while developing their understanding of the role of civic engagement and of political processes in the local, national, and/or global community. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate, and express informed opinions about, a range of political issues and developments that are both of significance in 		today's world and of personal interest to them.|Prerequisite: None
CHC2D1|Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10 Academic|This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and 	their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canada's evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, 	organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914.|Prerequisite: None
CHC2DP*|Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10 Applied|This course focuses on the social context of historical developments and events and how they have affected the lives of people in Canada since 1914. Students will explore interactions between various communities in Canada as well as contributions of individuals and groups to Canadian heritage and identity.Students will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of 	evidence, when investigating the continuing relevance of historical developments and how they have helped shape communities in present-day Canada.|Prerequisite: None
CHC2P1|Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10 Applied|This course focuses on the social context of historical developments and events and how they have affected the lives of people in Canada since 1914. Students will explore interactions between various communities in Canada as well as contributions of individuals and groups to Canadian heritage and identity.Students will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of 	evidence, when investigating the continuing relevance of historical developments and how they have helped shape communities in present-day Canada.|Prerequisite: None
CIE3M1|The Individual and the Economy, Grade 11, University/College Preparation|This course explores challenges facing the Canadian economy as well as the 		implications of various responses to these challenges Students will explore the economic role of business, labour, and government, as well as their own role as individual consumers and contributors, and how all of these influence stability and variability in the Canadian economy. Students will apply the concepts of economic thinking and the economic inquiry process, including economic models, to investigate the impact of economic decisions.|Prerequisite: Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10 Academic or Applied
CGF3M1|Forces of Nature: Physical Processes and Disasters, Grade 11 University/College Preparation|This course examines Earth's physical patterns and processes and how they create natural disasters and can contribute to human disasters. Students will explore how physical processes related to Earth's water, land, and air, as well as interactions between these systems, can affect the planet and its people. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate Earth's natural processes, to make predictions related to natural disasters, and to create plans to prepare for and/or respond to them.|Prerequisite: Canadian Geographic Issues, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
CHW3M1|World History to the End of the Fifteenth Century, Grade 11 University/College Preparation|This course explores the history of various societies around the world, from earliest times to around 1500 CE. Students will examine life in and the legacy of various ancient and pre-modern societies throughout the world, including those in, Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Americas. Students will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating social, political, and economic structures and historical forces at work in various societies and in different historical eras.|Prerequisite: Canadian History since World War I. Grade 10, Academic or Applied
CLU3M1|Understanding Canadian Law, Grade 11 Preparation|This course explores Canadian law, with a focus on legal issues that are relevant the lives of people in Canada. Students will gain an understanding of rights and freedoms in Canada, our legal system, and family, contract, employment, tort, and criminal law. Students will use case studies and apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process to develop legal reasoning skills and to formulate and communicate informed interpretations of legal issues, and they will develop the ability to advocate for new laws.|Prerequisite: Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10, Academic or Applied
CGG3O1|Travel and Tourism: A Geographic Perspective, Grade 11, Open|This course focuses on issues related to travel and tourism within and between various regions of the world. Students will investigate unique environmental, sociocultural, economic, and political characteristics of selected world regions. They will explore travel patterns and trends as well as tensions related to tourism, and will predict future tourism destinations. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate the impact of the travel industry on natural environments and human communities.|Prerequisite: Canadian Geographic Issues, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
CHT3O1|World History since 1900: Global and Regional Interactions, Grade 11 Open|This course focuses on major developments in world history from 1900 to the present. Students will explore the causes and consequences of global and regional conflicts as well as responses to social, economic, and political developments in various countries and regions. Students will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating historical developments and events, including those that continue to affect people in various parts of the world.|Prerequisite: Canadian History since World War I, Grade 10, Academic or Applied, or a locally developed compulsory course LDCC)
CIA4U1|Analyzing Current Economic Issues, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course examines current national and global economic trends and policies from diverse perspectives. Students will explore the impact of choices that individuals and institutions, including governments, make in responding to local, national, and global economic issues such as globalization and global economic inequalities, trade agreements, national debt, taxation, social spending, and consumer debt. Students will apply the concepts of economic thinking and the economic inquiry process, including economic models, to investigate, and develop informed opinions about, current economic issues and to help them make reasoned economic decisions.|Prerequisite: Any university or university/college preparation course in Canadian and world studies, English, or social sciences and humanities
CGW4U1|World Issues: A Geographic Analysis, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course looks at the global challenge of creating a more sustainable and equitable world. Students will explore a range of issues involving environmental, economic, social, and geopolitical interrelationships, and will examine governmental policies related to these issues. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate these complex issues, including their impact on natural and human communities around the world.|Prerequisite: Any university or university/college preparation course in Canadian and world studies, English, or social sciences and humanities
CHY4U1|World History since the Fifteenth Century Grade 12 University Preparation|This course traces major developments and events in world history since 		approximately 1450. Students will explore social, economic, and political changes, the historical roots of contemporary issues, and the role of conflict and 		cooperation in global interrelationships. They will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, as they investigate key issues and assess societal progress or decline in world history|Prerequisite: Any university or university college preparation course in Canadian 	and world studies, English, or social sciences and humanities
CHY4UP*|World History since the Fifteenth Century Grade 12 University Preparation|This course traces major developments and events in world history since 		approximately 1450. Students will explore social, economic, and political changes, the historical roots of contemporary issues, and the role of conflict and 		cooperation in global interrelationships. They will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, as they investigate key issues and assess societal progress or decline in world history|Prerequisite: Any university or university college preparation course in Canadian 	and world studies, English, or social sciences and humanities
CLN4U1|Canadian and International Law. Grade 12 University Preparation|This course explores a range of contemporary legal issues and how they are addressed in both Canadian and international law Students will develop their understanding of the principles of Canadian and international law when exploring rights and freedoms within the context of topics such as religion, security, cyberspace, immigration, crimes against humanity, and environmental protection.Students will apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process when investigating these issues in both Canadian international contexts, and they will develop legal reasoning skills and an understanding of conflict resolution in the area of international law|Prerequisite: Any university or university college preparation course in Canadian and world studies, English, or social sciences and humanities
ICS2O1|Introduction to Computer Studies, Grade 10, Open|This course introduces students to computer programming. Students will plan and write simple computer programs by applying fundamental programming concepts, and learn to create clear and maintainable internal documentation. They will also learn to manage a computer by studying hardware configurations, software selection, operating system functions, networking, and safe investigate the social impact of computer technologies, and develop an understanding of environmental and ethical issues related to the use of computers.|Prerequisite:None
ICS3U1|Introduction to Computer Science, Grade 11 University Preparation|This course introduces students to computer science. Students will design software independently and as part of a team. using industry-standard programming tools and applying the software development life-cycle model. They will also write and use 	subprograms within computer programs. Students will develop creative solutions for various types of problems as their understanding of the computing environment grows. They will also explore environmental and ergonomic issues emerging research 	in computer science, and global career trends in computer-related fields.|Prerequisite: None
ICS3C1|Introduction to Computer Programming, Grade 11 College Preparation|This course introduces students to computer programming concepts and practices. Students will write and test computer programs, using various problem-solving strategies. They will learn the fundamentals of program design and apply a software development life-cycle model to a software development project. Students 	will also learn about computer environments and systems, and explore environmental issues related to computers, safe computing practices, emerging technologies, and postsecondary opportunities in computer- related fields. |Prerequisite: None
ICS4U1|Computer Science, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills in computer science. Students will use modular design principles to create complex and fully documented programs according to industry standards. Student teams will manage a large software development project, from planning through to project review. Students will also analyze algorithms for effectiveness. They will investigate ethical issues in computing and further explore environmental issues, emerging technologies, areas of research in computer science, and careers in the field.|Prerequisite: Introduction to Computer Science, Grade 11 University Preparation
ICS4C1|Computer Programming Grade 12 College Preparation|This course further develops students' computer programming skills. Students will learn object-oriented programming concepts, create object-oriented software solutions, and design graphical user interfaces, Student teams will plan and carry out a software development project using industry standard programming tools and proper project management techniques. Students will also investigate ethical issues in computing, and expand their understanding of environmental issues, emerging technologies, and computer-related careers|Prerequisite: Introduction to Computer Programming, Grade 11, College Preparation.
ENG1D1|English, Grade 9, Academic|This course is designed to develop the oral communication, reading. writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyze literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the use of strategies that contribute to effective 		communication. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 academic English course, which leads to university or college preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12.|Prerequisite: None
ENG1DP|English, Grade 9, Academic|This course is designed to develop the oral communication, reading. writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyze literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the use of strategies that contribute to effective 		communication. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 academic English course, which leads to university or college preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12.|Prerequisite: None 
ENG1P1|English, Grade 9, Applied|This course is designed to develop the key oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills students need for success in secondary school and daily life. Students will read interpret, and create a variety of informational, literary, and graphic texts. An important focus will be on identifying and using appropriate strategies and processes to improve students comprehension of texts and to help them communicate clearly and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 applied English course, which leads to college or workplace preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12.|Prerequisite: None
ENG1L1|English, Grade 9. Locally Developed Compulsory|This course provides foundational literacy and communication skills to prepare students for success in their daily lives, in the workplace, and in the Grade 10 LDCC Course The course is organized into strands that develop listening and talking skulls, reading and viewing skills, and writing skills. In all strands, the focus is on developing foundational literacy skills and on using language clearly and accurately in a variety authentic contexts Students develop strategies and put into practice the processes involved in talking, listening, reading, viewing, writing, and thinking, and reflect regularly upon their growth in these areas|Prerequisite: None
ENG2D1|English, Grade 10, Academic|This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyze literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate 	informational and graphic texts, and create oral written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies 	that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 university or college ion course|Prerequisite: English, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
ENG2DP|English, Grade 10, Academic|This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyze literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate 	informational and graphic texts, and create oral written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies 	that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 university or college ion course|Prerequisite: English, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
ENG2P1|English, Grade 10,Applied|This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in secondary school and daily life. Students will study and create variety of informational literary, and graphic texts. An important focus will be on the consolidation of 	strategies and processes that help students interpret texts and communicate clearly and effectively. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 college or workplace preparation course.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 9 Academic or Applied
ENG2L1|English, Grade 10, Locally Developed Compulsory|In this course, students focus on extending their literacy and communication skills to prepare for success in their daily lives, in the workplace, and in the English Grade 11 Workplace Preparation course The course is organized into strands that extend listening and talking skills, reading and viewing skills, and writing skills. In all strands, the focus is on refining foundational literacy skills and on using language clearly and accurately in a variety of authentic contexts. Students build on their strategies and engage in the processes involved in talking, listening, reading, viewing, writing, and thinking, and reflect regularly upon their growth in these areas.|Prerequisite: A Grade 9 English credit
ENG3U1|English, Grade 11. University Preparation|This course emphasizes the development of literacy communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyze challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university college preparation course.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Academic
ENG3UP|English, Grade 11. University Preparation|This course emphasizes the development of literacy communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyze challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university college preparation course.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Academic
ENG3C1|English, Grade College Preparation|This course emphasizes the development of literacy communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from Canada and other countries, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 college preparation course|Prerequisite: English. Grade 10. Applied
ENG3E1|English, Grade 11, Workplace Preparation|This course emphasizes the development of literacy communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of contemporary informational, graphic, and literary texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language clearly and accurately in a variety of formal and informal contexts. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 workplace preparation course|Prerequisite: A Grade 10 English credit English
EMS3O1|Media Studies, Grade 11. Open|This course emphasizes knowledge and skills that will enable students to understand media communication in the twenty- first century and to use media effectively and responsibly. Through analyzing the forms and messages of a variety of media works and audience responses to them, and through creating their own media works, students will develop critical thinking skills, aesthetic and ethical judgement, and skills in viewing, representing, listening, speaking, reading, and 	writing.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 10. Academic or Applied
ENG4U1|Grade 12, University Preparation|This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyze a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, University Preparation or English: Contemporary Aboriginal Voices, Grade 11 University
ENG4UP|Grade 12, University Preparation|This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyze a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, University Preparation or English: Contemporary Aboriginal Voices, Grade 11 University
ENG4C1|English, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily Students 	will analyze a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from various countries and cultures, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for college or the workplace|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, College Preparation or English: Contemporary Aboriginal Voices, Grade 11, College
ENG4E1|English, Grade 12, Workplace Preparation|This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will analyze informational, graphic, and literary texts and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for workplace-related and practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language accurately and organizing ideas and information coherently. The course is intended to prepare students for the workplace and active citizenship|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11 Workplace Preparation or English: Contemporary Aboriginal Voices, Grade 11 Workplace
ETS4U1|Studies in Literature, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course is for students with a special interest in literature and literary criticism. The course may focus on themes, genres, time periods, or countries. Students will analyze a range of forms and stylistic elements of literary texts and respond personally, critically, and creatively to them. They will also assess critical interpretations, write analytical essays, and complete an independent study project.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, University Preparation
ETS4C1| Studies in Literature, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course is for students with a special interest in literature. The course may 	focus on themes, genres, time periods, or countries. Students will study a variety of forms and stylistic elements of literary texts and respond personally, critically, and creatively to them. They will also investigate critical interpretations and complete an independent study project.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11,College Preparation 
EWC4U1|The Writer's Craft, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course emphasizes knowledge and skills related to the craft of writing.Students will analyze models of effective writing: use a workshop approach to produce a range of works; identify and use techniques required for specialized forms of writing; and identify effective ways to improve the quality of their writing. They will also complete a major paper as part of a creative or analytical independent study project and investigate opportunities for publication and for writing careers.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11. University Preparation
EWC4C1|The Writer's Craft, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course emphasizes knowledge and skills related to the craft of writing.Students will investigate models of effective writing; use a workshop approach to write a variety of works and make considered decisions for improving the quality 	of their writing. They will also complete a creative or analytical independent study project and investigate opportunities for publication and for writing careers.|Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, College Preparation
FSF1D1|Core French, Grade 9 Academic|This course provides opportunities for students to Communicate and interact in French with increasing independence, with a focus on familiar topics related to their daily lives. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills by using language-learning strategies introduced in the elementary Core French program, and will apply creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-		speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: Minimum of 600 hours of elementary Core French instruction, or equivalent
FSF1P1|Core French, Grade 9 Applied|This course provides opportunities for students to communicate and interact in French in structured situations on everyday topics and to apply their knowledge of French in everyday situations. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills introduced in the elementary Core French program, through practical applications and concrete examples, and will use creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners|Prerequisite: Minimum of 600 hours of elementary Core French instruction, or equivalent FSFIP
FEF1D1|Extended French, Grade 9 Academic|This course provides opportunities for students to speak and interact in French in a variety of real-life and personally relevant contexts. Students will continue to use language- learning strategies introduced in the elementary Extended French program. They will develop their creative and critical thinking skills, through independently responding to and interacting with a variety of oral and written texts, and will continue to enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities. They will also develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: Minimum of 1260 hours of instruction in elementary Extended French, or equivalent
FIF1D1|French Immersion, Grade 9 Academic|This course provides opportunities for students to speak and interact in French independently in a variety of real-life and personally relevant contexts. Students will develop their ability to communicate in French with confidence by using language-learning strategies introduced in the elementary French Immersion program. Students will enhance their knowledge of the language through the study of French- Canadian literature. They will also continue to increase their 		understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: Minimum of 3800 hours of instruction in elementary French Immersion, or equivalent
FSF2D1|Core French, Grade 10 Academic|This course provides opportunities for students to communicate in French about personally relevant, familiar, and academic topics in real-life situations with increasing independence. Students will exchange information, ideas, and opinions with others in guided and increasingly spontaneous spoken interactions. Students will continue to develop their language knowledge and skills through the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. They will also increase their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will continue to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: Core French, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
FEF2D1|Extended French, Grade 10 Academic|This course provides extensive opportunities for students to use their communication skills in French and to apply language-learning strategies. Students will respond to and interact with French oral and written texts in a variety of real- life contexts, using their creative and critical thinking skills to explore and evaluate information and ideas in the texts. Students will increase their knowledge of the language through the study of French-Canadian authors. They will also continue to increase their understanding and appreciation of French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners|Prerequisite: Extended French, Grade 9, Academic
FIF2D1|French Immersion, Grade 10 Academic|This course provides students with extensive opportunities to communicate, interact, and think critically and creatively in French. Students will use a variety of language-learning strategies in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, and will respond to and interact with print, oral, visual, and electronic texts. Students will develop their knowledge of the French language through the study of contemporary and historically well-known French European literature. They 	will also continue to increase their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: French Immersion, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
FSF3U1|Core French, Grade 11 University Preparation|This course offers students extended opportunities to speak and interact in real-life situations in French with greater independence. Students will develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and exploring a variety of oral and written texts. They will continue to broaden their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning.|Prerequisite: Core French, Grade 10, Academic
FEF3U1|Extended French, Grade II University Preparation|This course provides opportunities for students to communicate about concrete and abstract topics in various situations. Students will consolidate language-learning strategies and apply them in a variety of real-life contexts in order to enhance and refine their communication skills, and will continue to develop creative and critical thinking skills. Students will develop their knowledge of the language through the study of contemporary and well-known French European authors. They will also continue to deepen their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and develop the skills necessary to become life-long 	language learners.|Prerequisite: Extended French, Grade 10, Academic
FIF3U1|French Immersion, Grade 11 University Preparation|This course provides opportunities for students to consolidate the communication skills required to speak and interact with increasing confidence and accuracy in French in a variety of academic and social contexts. Students will apply language-learning strategies while exploring a variety of concrete and abstract topics, and will increase their knowledge of the language through the study of French literature from around the world. They will also continue to deepen their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. Prerequisite| French Immersion, Grade 10, Academic
FSF4U1|Core French, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course provides extensive opportunities for students to speak and interact in French independently. Students will apply language-learning strategies in a wide 	variety of real-life situations, and will continue to develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and interacting with a variety of oral and written texts. Students will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning|Prerequisite: Core French, Grade 11, University Preparation
FEF4U1|Extended French, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course further emphasizes the consolidation of communication skills required to interact in French for various purposes about concrete and abstract topics. Students will independently apply language-learning strategies in a variety of real-life and personally relevant contexts, and will broaden their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and analyzing oral and written increase their knowledge of the language through the study of Canadian and international French literature. They will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners.|Prerequisite: Extended French, Grade 11, University Preparation
FIF4U1|French Immersion, Grade 12 University Preparation |This course provides students with extensive opportunities to communicate, interact, and think critically and creatively in French. Students will consolidate language-learning strategies and apply them while communicating about concrete and abstract topics, and will independently respond to and interact with a variety of oral and written texts. Students will study a selection of French literature from the Middle Ages to the present. They will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners|Prerequisite: French Immersion, Grade 11, University Preparation
GLC2O3|Career Studies, Grade 10, Open Half-credit|This compulsory course teaches students how to develop and achieve personal goals for future learning, work, and community involvement. Students will assess their interests, skills, and characteristics and investigate current economic and workplace trends, work opportunities, and ways to search for work. The course explores postsecondary learning and career options, prepares students for managing work and life transitions, and helps students focus on their goals through the development of career plan|Prerequisite: None
GLD2O3|Discovering the Workplace, Grade 10, Open|This course provides students with opportunities to discover and develop the workplace essential skills and work habits required to be successfully employed, and helps students make plans for continued learning and work. Students will develop an understanding of work through practical hands-on experiences in the school and in the community, using real workplace materials. will investigate occupations of interest through experiential learning opportunities, such as worksite visits, job shadowing, work experience, simulations, and entrepreneurial projects|Prerequisite: None
COP4X2|Co-operative Education 2 Credits|Cooperative Education Linked to a Related Course (or Courses). This course consists of a community-connected experience and a cooperative education curriculum that incorporates relevant expectations from the student's related course (or courses) Students will develop skills, knowledge, and habits of mind that will support them in their learning at school and beyond, today and in the future, as well as their education and career/life planning Students will apply, extend, and refine skills and knowledge acquired in their related course or courses and will apply skills knowledge, and habits of mind that will protect and promote their health, safety, and well-being. They will create and implement a learning plan that meets their particular interests and needs, reflect on their learning, and make connections between their experience in the community and other aspects of their lives.|Prerequisite: None
COP4X3|Co-operative Education 3 Credits|Cooperative Education Linked to a Related Course (or Courses). This course consists of a community-connected experience and a cooperative education curriculum that incorporates relevant expectations from the student's related course (or courses) Students will develop skills, knowledge, and habits of mind that will support them in their learning at school and beyond, today and in the future, as well as their education and career/life planning Students will apply, extend, and refine skills and knowledge acquired in their related course or courses and will apply skills knowledge, and habits of mind that will protect and promote their health, safety, and well-being. They will create and implement a learning plan that meets their particular interests and needs, reflect on their learning, and make connections between their experience in the community and other aspects of their lives.|Prerequisite: None
GPP3O1|Leadership and Peer Support, Grade 11, Open|This course prepares students to act in leadership and peer support roles. They will design and implement a plan for contributing to their school and/or community; develop skills in communication, interpersonal relations, teamwork, and 	conflict management; and apply those skills in leadership and/or peer support roles - for example, as a student council member or a peer tutor. Students will examine group dynamics and learn the value of diversity within groups and communities.|Prerequisite: None
COP4X2|Co-operative Education 2 Credits Cooperative Education Linked to a Related Course (or Courses)|This course consists of a community-connected experience and a cooperative education curriculum that incorporates relevant expectations from the student's related course (or courses) Students will develop skills, knowledge, and habits of mind that will support them in their learning at school and beyond, today and in the future, as well as their education and career/life planning Students will apply, extend, and refine skills and knowledge acquired in their related course or courses and will apply skills knowledge, and habits of mind that will protect and promote their health, safety, and well-being. They will create and implement a learning plan that meets their particular interests and needs, reflect on their learning, and make connections between their experience in the community and other aspects of their lives.|Prerequisite: None
COPOY3|Co-operative Education - Ontario Youth Apprenticeship Program 3 Credits Cooperative Education Linked to a Related Course (or Courses)| This course consists of a community-connected experience and a cooperative education curriculum that incorporates relevant expectations from the student's related course (or courses) Students will develop skills, knowledge, and habits of mind that will support them in their learning at school and beyond, today and in the future, as well as their education and career/life planning Students will apply, extend, and refine skills and knowledge acquired in their related course or courses and will apply skills knowledge, and habits of mind that will protect and promote their health, safety, and well-being. They will create and implement a learning plan that meets their particular interests and needs, reflect on their 	learning, and make connections between their experience in the community and other aspects of their lives.|Prerequisite: None
PPL1OU(M)|Healthy Active Living Education, Grade 9 Open PPLIO|This course equips students with the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively. The possible focus courses for Grade9, along with their corresponding course codes, are as follows:  Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities- PAFIO  Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities- PALIO  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities-PAI1O  Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities- PAQIO  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities - PARIO  Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities- PADIO|Prerequisite: None
PPL1OV(F)|Healthy Active Living Education, Grade 9 Open PPLIO|This course equips students with the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their 	ability to think critically and creatively. The possible focus courses for Grade 9, along with their corresponding course codes, are as follows:  Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities- PAFIO  Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities- PALIO  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities-PAI1O  Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities- PAQIO  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities - PARIO  Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities- PADIO|Prerequisite: None
PAF1OV(F)|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Prerequisite: None
PPL2OU(M)|Healthy Active Living Education, Grade 10, Open|This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their 	ability to think critically and creatively. The possible focus courses for Grade 10, along with their corresponding course codes, areas follows Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities -- PAF2O   Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities-PAL2O  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities -PA12O  Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities-PAO2O  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities PAR2O   Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities-PAD2O|Prerequisite: None
PPL2OV(F)|Healthy Active Living Education, Grade 10, Open|This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their 	ability to think critically and creatively. The possible focus courses for Grade 10, along with their corresponding course codes, areas follows Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities -- PAF2O  Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities-PAL2O  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities -PA12O   Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities-PAO2O  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities PAR2O  Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities-PAD2O|Prerequisite: None
PAF2OV(F)|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Prerequisite: None
PPL3O1|Healthy Active Living Education, Grade II1 Open|This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively. The possible focus courses for Grade 11, along with their corresponding course codes, are as follows:  Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities- PAF3O  Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities-PAL3O .  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities -PAI3O  Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities- PAQ3O  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities - PAR3O  Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities-PAD3O|Prerequisite: None
PAF3OU(M)|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Prerequisite: None
PAF3OV(F)|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Prerequisite: None
PSK4U1|Introductory Kinesiology, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course focuses on the study of human movement and of systems, factors and principles involved in human development. Students will learn about the effects of physical activity on health and performance, the evolution of physical activity and sport, and the physiological, psychological, and social factors that influence an individual's participation in physical activity and sport. The course prepares students for university programs in physical education and health, kinesiology, health sciences, health studies, recreation, and sports administration.|Prerequisite: Any Grade 11 university or university/college preparation course in science, or any Grade I1 or 12 course in health and physical education.
PPL4O1| Healthy Active Living Education, Grade 12 Open|This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices. It places special emphasis on how students can maintain the habits of healthy, active living throughout their lives as they make the transition to adulthood and independent living. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities in a variety of settings, students can enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively, The possible focus courses for Grade 12, along with their corresponding course codes, are as follows:  Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities- PAF4O  Healthy Living and Large-Group Activities-PAL4O  Healthy Living and Individual and Small-Group Activities PAI4O  Healthy Living and Aquatic Activities-PAQ4O  Healthy Living and Rhythm and Movement Activities PAR4O  Healthy Living and Outdoor Activities-PAD4O|Prerequisite: None
PAF4OV(F)|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Healthy Living and Personal and Fitness Activities|Prerequisite: None
MFM1P1|Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 9, Applied|This course enables students to develop an understanding of mathematical concepts related to introductory algebra, rational reasoning, and measurement and geometry through prop investigation, the effective use of technology, and hands-on activities. Students will investigate real-life examples to develop various representations of linear relations, and will determine the connections between the representations. They will also explore certain relationships that emerge from the measurement of three- dimensional objects and two-dimensional shapes. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate 	their thinking Successful completion of this course prepares students for Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied (MFM 2P) (Note: Students who wish to take Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic (MPM 2D) after completing this 	course will need to take a transfer course.) Learning through hands-on activities and the use of concrete examples is an important aspect of this course|Prerequisite: None
MAT1L1|Locally Developed Compulsory Credit Grade 9| This course emphasizes further development of mathematical knowledge and skills to prepare students for success in their everyday lives, in the workplace, and in the Grade 10 LDCC The course is organized in three strands related to money sense, measurement, and proportional reasoning. In all strands, the focus is on developing and consolidating key foundational mathematical concepts and skills by solving authentic, everyday problems. Students have opportunities to further develop their mathematical literacy and problem-solving skills and to continue developing their skills in reading, writing, and oral language through relevant and practical math activities.|Prerequisite: None
MPM1D1|PrincIples of Mathematics, Grade 9, Academic|This course enables students to develop an understanding mathematical concepts related to algebra, analytic geometry, and measurement and geometry through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will investigate relationships, which they will then generalize as equations of lines, and will determine the connections between different representations of a linear relation. They will also explore relationships that emerge from the measurement of three- dimensional figures and two-dimensional shapes. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. Successful completion of this course prepares students for Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic (MPM2D) or Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied (MFM2P). Learning through abstract reasoning is an important aspect this course|Prerequisite: None
MPM1DP*|PrincIples of Mathematics, Grade 9, Academic|This course enables students to develop an understanding mathematical concepts related to algebra, analytic geometry, and measurement and geometry through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will investigate relationships, which they will then generalize as equations of lines, and will determine the connections between different representations of a linear relation. They will also explore relationships that emerge from the measurement of three- dimensional figures and two-dimensional shapes. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. Successful completion of this course prepares students for Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic (MPM2D) or Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied (MFM2P). Learning through abstract reasoning is an important aspect this course|Prerequisite: None 
MFM2P1|Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied|This course enables students to consolidate their understanding of linear relations and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology. and hands-on activities. Students will develop and graph equations in analytic geometry: solve and apply linear systems, using real-life examples; and explore and interpret graphs of quadratic relations. Students will investigate similar triangles, the trigonometry of right triangles, and the measurement of three-dimensional figures. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.|Prerequisite: Mathematics, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
MAT2L1|Locally Developed Compulsory Credit Grade 10|This course emphasizes the extension of mathematical knowledge and skills to prepare student everyday lives, in the workplace, and in the Grade 11 Mathematics Workplace Preparation course. Students for success in their everyday lives. The course is organized in three strands related to money sense, measurement, and proportional reasoning. In all strands, the focus is on strengthening and extending key foundational mathematical concepts and skills by solving authentic, everyday problems Students have opportunities to extend their mathematical literacy and problem-solving skills and to continue developing their skills in reading, writing and oral language through relevant and practical math activities.|Prerequisite: A Grade 9 Mathematics credit
MPM2D1|Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10. Academic|This course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and 	extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relations and their applications, solve and apply linear systems: verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry, and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi- step problems.|Prerequisite: Mathematics. Grade 9. Academic or Applied + Transfer
MPM2DP*|Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10. Academic|This course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and 	extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relations and their applications, solve and apply linear systems: verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry, and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi- step problems.|Prerequisite: Mathematics. Grade 9. Academic or Applied + Transfer
MBF3C1|Foundations for College Mathematics, Grade 11, College Preparation|This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as a problem-solving tool in the real world. Students will extend their understanding of quadratic relations, as well as of measurement and geometry; investigate situations involving exponential growth; solve problems involving compound interest; solve financial problems connected with vehicle ownership; and develop their ability to reason by collecting, analyzing, and evaluating data involving one and two variables. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.|Prerequisite: Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied
MCR3U1|Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students' experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions, represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically, solve problems involving applications of functions and develop facility in simplifying polynomial and rational expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems|Prerequisite: Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic
MCR3UP*|Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students' experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions, represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically, solve problems involving applications of functions and develop facility in simplifying polynomial and rational expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems|Prerequisite: Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic
MCF3M1|Functions and Applications, Grade 11, University/College Preparation|This course introduces basic features of the function by extending students' experiences with quadratic relations. It focuses on quadratic, trigonometric, and exponential functions and their use in modelling real-world situations. Students will represent functions numerically, graphically, and algebraically simplify expressions; solve equations; and solve problems relating to financial and trigonometric applications. Students will reason mathematically and communicate 	their thinking as they solve multi-step problems.|Prerequisite: Principles of Mathematics, Grade 10, Academic, or Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 10, Applied
MEL3E1|Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life, Grade II, Workplace Preparation|This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as it is applied in the workplace and daily life. Students will solve problems associated with earning money, paying taxes, and making purchases; apply calculations of simple and compound interest in saving, investing, and borrowing: and calculate the costs of transportation and travel in variety of situations. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking.|Prerequisite: Principles of Mathematics, Grade 9, Academic, or Foundations of Mathematics, Grade 9, Applied, or a ministry- approved locally developed Grade 10 mathematics course
MHF4U1|Advanced Functions Grade 12, University Preparation |This course extends students' experience with functions. Students will investigate the properties of polynomial, rational, log arithmetic, and trigonometric functions; broaden their understanding of rates of change; and develop facility in 	applying these concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended both for students who plan to study mathematics in university and for those wishing to consolidate their understanding of mathematics before proceeding to any one of a variety of university programs|Prerequisite: Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation, or Mathematics for College Technology, Grade 12, College Preparation.
MHF4UP|Advanced Functions Grade 12, University Preparation |This course extends students' experience with functions. Students will investigate the properties of polynomial, rational, log arithmetic, and trigonometric functions; broaden their understanding of rates of change; and develop facility in 	applying these concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended both for students who plan to study mathematics in university and for those wishing to consolidate their understanding of mathematics before proceeding to any one of a variety of university programs|Prerequisite: Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation, or Mathematics for College Technology, Grade 12, College Preparation.
MCV4U1|Calculus and Vectors, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course builds on students' previous experience with functions and their developing understanding of rates of change. Students will solve problems involving geometric and algebraic representations of vectors, and representations of lines and planes in three-dimensional space; broaden their understanding of rates of change to include the derivatives of polynomial, rational, exponential, and sinusoidal functions; and apply these concepts and skills to the modelling of real-world relationships. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended fo r students who plan to study mathematics in university and who may choose to pursue careers in fields such as physics and engineering.|Prerequisite: Advanced Functions, Grade 12, University Prep. Note: In some schools, it may be necessary to take the prerequisite course concurrently with MCV4U
MCV4UP|Calculus and Vectors, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course builds on students' previous experience with functions and their developing understanding of rates of change. Students will solve problems involving geometric and algebraic representations of vectors, and representations of lines and planes in three-dimensional space; broaden their understanding of rates of change to include the derivatives of polynomial, rational, exponential, and sinusoidal functions; and apply these concepts and skills to the modelling of real-world relationships. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended fo r students who plan to study mathematics in university and who may choose to pursue careers in fields such as physics and engineering.|Prerequisite: Advanced Functions, Grade 12, University Prep. Note: In some schools, it may be necessary to take the prerequisite course concurrently with MCV4U
MAP4C1|Foundations for College Mathematics, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course enables students to broaden their understanding of real-world applications of mathematics. Students will analyze data using statistical methods; solve problems involving applications of geometry, and trigonometry; simplify expressions; solve equations. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This course prepares students for college programs in areas such as business, health sciences, and human services, and for certain skilled trades.|Prerequisite: Foundations for College Mathematics, Grade 11, College Preparation
MCT4C1|Mathematics for College Technology, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course enables students to extend their knowledge of functions. Students will investigate and apply properties of polynomial, exponential, and trigonometric functions; continue to represent functions numerically, graphically, and algebraically; develop facility in simplifying expressions and solving equations; and solve problems that address applications of algebra, trigonometry, vectors and geometry. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This course prepares students for a variety of college technology programs.|Prerequisite: Function and Applications, Grade 11, University/College Preparation
MDM4U1|Mathematics of Data Management, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course broadens students' understanding of mathematics as it relates to managing data. Students will apply methods for organizing large amounts of information; solve problems involving probability and statistics; and carry out a culminating project that integrates statistical concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. Students planning to enter university programs in business, the social sciences, and the humanities will find this course of particular interest.|Prerequisite: Functions and Applications, Grade 11, University/College Preparation, or Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation.
SNC1D1|Science, Grade 9, Academic|This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science. and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of 	elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity.|Prerequisite: None 
SNC1DP*|Science, Grade 9, Academic|This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science. and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of 	elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity.|Prerequisite: None 
SNC1P1|Science, Grade 9. Applied|This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science to everyday situations. They are also given opportunities to develop practical skills related to scientific investigation. Students will plan 	and conduct investigations into practical problems and issues related to the impact of human activity on ecosystems; the structure and properties of elements and compounds; space exploration and the components of the universe; and static and current electricity|Prerequisite: None
SNC1L1|Science, Grade 9, Locally Developed Compulsory|This course emphasizes reinforcing and strengthening science- related knowledge 	and skills, including scientific inquiry, critical thinking, and the relationship between science, society, and the environment, to prepare students for success in everyday life, in the workplace, and in the Grade 10 LDCC course. Students explore a range of topics, including science in daily life, properties of common materials, life-sustaining processes in simple and complex organisms, and electrical circuits. Students have the opportunity to extend mathematical and scientific process skills and to continue developing their skills in reading, writing, and oral language through relevant and practical science activities.|Prerequisite: None
SNC2D1|Science, Grade 10, Academic |This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals, plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid-base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
SNC2DP*|Science, Grade 10, Academic |This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals, plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid-base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
SNC2P1|Science, Grade 10, Applied |This course enables students to develop a deeper understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science in real-world situations. Students are given opportunities to develop further practical skills in scientific investigation. Students will plan and conduct investigations into everyday problems and issues related to human cells and body systems; chemical reactions; factors affecting climate change; and the interaction of light and matter|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 9, Academic or Applied
SNS2L1|Science, Grade 10, Locally Developed Compulsory|This course emphasizes reinforcing strengthening science- related knowledge and skills, including scientific inquiry, critical thinking, and the environmental impact of science and technology, to prepare students for success in everyday life, in the workplace, and in the Science Grade 11 Workplace Preparation course. Students explore a range of topics, including science in the media, interactions of common materials, interdependence of organisms in communities, and using electrical energy Students have the opportunity to extend mathematical and scientific process skills and to continue developing their skills in reading, 		writing, and oral language through relevant and practical science activities.|Prerequisite: None
SBI3U1|Biology, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course furthers students' understanding of the processes involved in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biodiversity; evolution; genetic processes; the structure and function of animals; and the anatomy, growth, and function of plants. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study, and helps students refine skills related to scientific investigation.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SBI3UP*|Biology, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course furthers students' understanding of the processes involved in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biodiversity; evolution; genetic processes; the structure and function of animals; and the anatomy, growth, and function of plants. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study, and helps students refine skills related to scientific investigation.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SBI3C1|Biology, Grade 11, College Preparation|This course focuses on the processes that occur in biological systems. Students 	will learn concepts and theories as they conduct investigations in the areas of 	cellular biology microbiology, genetics, the anatomy of mammals, and the structure of plants and their role in the natural environment. Emphasis will be placed on the practical application of concepts and on the skills needed for further study in various branches of life sciences and related fields.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic or Applied
SCH3U1|Chemistry, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of the properties of chemicals and chemical bonds; chemical reactions and quantitative relationships in those reactions; solutions and solubility; and atmospheric chemistry and the behaviour of gases. Students will further develop their analytical skills and investigate the qualitative and quantitative properties of matter, as well as the impact of some common chemical reactions on 	society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SCH3UP*|Chemistry, Grade 11, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of the properties of chemicals and chemical bonds; chemical reactions and quantitative relationships in those reactions; solutions and solubility; and atmospheric chemistry and the behaviour of gases. Students will further develop their analytical skills and investigate the qualitative and quantitative properties of matter, as well as the impact of some common chemical reactions on 	society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SPH3U1|Physics, Grade I1, University Preparation|This course develops students' understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore kinematics, with an emphasis on linear motion; different kinds of forces; energy transformations; the properties of mechanical waves and sound; and electricity and magnetism. They will enhance their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics. In addition, they will analyze the interrelationships between physics and technology, and consider the impact of 	technological applications of physics on society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SPH3UP*|Physics, Grade I1, University Preparation|This course develops students' understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore kinematics, with an emphasis on linear motion; different kinds of forces; energy transformations; the properties of mechanical waves and sound; and electricity and magnetism. They will enhance their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics. In addition, they will analyze the interrelationships between physics and technology, and consider the impact of 	technological applications of physics on society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Science, Grade 10, Academic
SBI4U1|Biology, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course provides students with the opportunity for in-depth study of the concepts and processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biochemistry, metabolic processes, molecular genetics, homeostasis, and population dynamics. Emphasis will be placed on the achievement of detailed knowledge and the refinement of skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields.|Prerequisite: Biology, Grade 11, University Preparation
SBI4UP*|Biology, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course provides students with the opportunity for in-depth study of the concepts and processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biochemistry, metabolic processes, molecular genetics, homeostasis, and population dynamics. Emphasis will be placed on the achievement of detailed knowledge and the refinement of skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields.|Prerequisite: Biology, Grade 11, University Preparation
SCH4U1|Chemistry, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of organic chemistry, the structure and properties of matter, energy changes and rates of reaction, equilibrium in chemical systems, and electrochemistry. Students will further develop their problem-solving and investigations skills as they investigate chemical processes, and will refine their ability to communicate scientific information. Emphasis will be placed on 	the importance of chemistry in everyday life and on evaluating the impact of chemical technology on the environment.|Prerequisite: Chemistry, Grade 11, University preparation
SCH4UP*|Chemistry, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of organic chemistry, the structure and properties of matter, energy changes and rates of reaction, equilibrium in chemical systems, and electrochemistry. Students will further develop their problem-solving and investigations skills as they investigate chemical processes, and will refine their ability to communicate scientific information. Emphasis will be placed on 	the importance of chemistry in everyday life and on evaluating the impact of chemical technology on the environment.|Prerequisite: Chemistry, Grade 11, University preparation
SCH4C1|Chemistry, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course enables students to develop an understanding of chemistry through the study of matter and qualitative analysis, organic chemistry, electrochemistry, chemical calculations, and chemistry as it related to the quality of the environment. Student will use a variety of laboratory techniques, develop skills in data collection and scientific analysis, and communicate scientific information using appropriate terminology. Emphasis will be placed on the role of chemistry in daily life and the effects of technological applications and processes on society and the environment|Prerequisite: Chemistry, Grade 10, Academic or Applied
SPH4U1|Physics, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of physics concepts and theories. Students will continue their exploration of energy transformations and the forces that affect motion, and will investigate electrical, gravitational, and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. Students will also explore the wave nature of light, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. They will further develop their scientific investigation skills, learning, for example, how to analyze, qualitatively and quantitatively, data relating to a variety of physics concepts and principles. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Physics, Grade 11, University Preparation
SPH4UP*|Physics, Grade 12, University Preparation|This course enables students to deepen their understanding of physics concepts and theories. Students will continue their exploration of energy transformations and the forces that affect motion, and will investigate electrical, gravitational, and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. Students will also explore the wave nature of light, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. They will further develop their scientific investigation skills, learning, for example, how to analyze, qualitatively and quantitatively, data relating to a variety of physics concepts and principles. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment.|Prerequisite: Physics, Grade 11, University Preparation
HSB4U1|Challenge and Change in Society, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course focuses on the use of social science theories perspectives, and methodologies to investigate and explain shifts in knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and behaviour and their impact on society. Students will critically analyze how and why cultural, social, and behavioural patterns change over time. They will explore the ideas of social theorists and use those ideas to analyze causes of and responses to challenges such as technological change, deviance, and global inequalities. Students will explore ways in which social science research methods 	can be used to study social change.|Prerequisite: Any university or university/college preparation course in social sciences and humanities, English, or Canadian and world studies.
HHS4C1|Families in Canada, Grade 12 College Preparation|This course enables students to develop an understanding of social science theories as they apply to individual development, the development of intimate relationships, and family and parent- child relationships. Students will explore a range of issues relating to the development of individuals and families in contemporary society as well as in other cultures and historical periods. They will develop the investigative skills required to conduct research on individuals, intimate relationships, and parent-child roles and relationships in Canada.|Prerequisite: Any university, college, or university/college preparation course in 	social sciences and humanities, English, or Canadian and world studies.
HHS4U1|Families in Canada, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course enables students to draw on sociological, psychological, and anthropological theories and research analyses the development of individuals, intimate relationships, and family and parent-child relationships. Students will focus on issues and challenges facing individuals and families in Canada's diverse society. They will develop analytical tools that enable them to assess various factors affecting families and to consider policies and practices intended to support families in Canada. They will develop the investigative skills required to 	conduct and communicate the results of research on individuals, intimate relationships, and parent-child relationships|Prerequisite: Any university or university/college preparation course in social 	sciences and humanities, English, or Canadian and world studies.
HZT4U1|Philosophy: Questions and Theories, Grade 12 University Preparation|This course enables students to acquire an understanding of the nature of philosophy and philosophical reasoning skills and to develop and apply their knowledge and skills while exploring specialized branches of philosophy (the course will cover at least three of the following branches: metaphysics, ethics, epistemology, philosophy of science, social and political philosophy, aesthetics). Students will develop critical thinking and philosophical reasoning skills as they formulate and evaluate arguments related to a variety of philosophical questions and theories. They will also develop research and inquiry skills related to the 	study and practice of philosophy|Prerequisite: Any university or university/college preparation course in social sciences and humanities, English, or Canadian and world studies.
HRE1O1|Discipleship & Culture, Grade 9 Open|This course engages students in the examination of the Christian narrative as revealed in Sacred Scripture. Students are invited to a deeper understanding of both the joy and the demands of living out the call to discipleship as it is described in the Scriptures. Students explore discipleship as encountered in the Sacred Tradition of the Church (Sacraments, Liturgical Year and Church Teaching and Law), as part of their ongoing personal growth and faith understanding. Students explore Catholic rituals, teaching, practice, morals and values, and virtues to facilitate a healthy and covenantal relationship with self, God and with others. Using theological reflection, they are challenged to explore the connections of ethical concepts (euthanasia, abortion, sexuality, etc.) between 	the Church and contemporary culture. The course focuses on encouraging students to know and love by following in the footsteps of Jesus. As they learn of his words and deeds, they discover the importance of prayerfully serving the community to bring about the Reign of God.|Prerequisite: None
HRE2O1|Christ and Culture, Grade 10 Open|This course both invites and challenges the adolescent to personalize the Gospel values and social justice principles that guide Catholics in understanding their role in shaping culture as disciples of Jesus. Students will explore such foundational topics as: what it means to be human, created in God's image, what is culture, Christ and culture, living together in solidarity social justice, prayer and sacrament, friendship and intimacy Connections between the living Church and contemporary culture are explored in terms of what it means to be a responsible Christian adolescent in a secularized, pluralistic world.|Prerequisite:None
HRT3M1|World Religions and Belief Traditions: Perspectives, Issues, and Challenges, Grade 11 University/College Preparation|This course provides students with opportunities to explore various world religions and belief traditions. Students will develop knowledge of the terms and concepts relevant to this area of study, will examine the ways in which religions and belief traditions meet various human needs, and will learn about the relationship between belief and action. They will examine sacred writings and teachings, consider how concepts of time and place influence different religions and belief traditions, and develop research and inquiry skills related to the study of human expressions of belief.|Prerequisite: None.
HRF3O1|World Religions and Belief Traditions in Daily Life, Grade 11 Open|This course enables students to study world religions and belief traditions in local, Canadian, and global contexts. Students will explore aspects of the human quest for meaning and will examine world religions and belief traditions as exemplified various sacred teachings and principles, rites, and passages. They will also study the interaction throughout history between society and various belief traditions, and will have opportunities to develop research and inquiry skills related to the study of world religions and belief traditions.|Prerequisite: None
HRE4M1|Church and Culture, Grade 12 Open |This course enables students to deepen their understanding of how the Church engages contemporary culture with faith and reason, in pursuit of love, justice, and the common good. Students will have opportunity to learn how living the Baptismal vocation to a virtuous life, filled with the joy of the Gospel and nurtured by the sacraments, can transform them and society from within, allowing God to reign in human hearts. Students will also refine research and inquiry skills.|Prerequisite: HRE 3M or any university or university/college preparation course in social sciences and humanities, English, or Canadian and world studies
HRE4O1|Church and Culture, Open Grade I2, University College |This course has the aim of assisting students in understanding themselves as moral persons living the way of Christ through an examination of the revelation of sacred Scripture, and the experience and teaching of the Catholic Church. It engages students in critical reflection on significant contemporary moral and ethical issues in light of Scripture, Church teaching, and their own experiences (i.e.. Theological Reflection). Social and ecological justice issues are explored long with a study of topics that focus on Christian mercy and forgiveness. The graces and challenges of every day human living, understanding who we are, what we 	are called to be, and living in relationships, including marriage, and family life are explored from a Catholic perspective. Students are challenged to adopt the Christian stance in the political world.|Prerequisite: None
TMJ2O1|Manufacturing Technology, Grade 10, Open|This course introduces students to the manufacturing industry by giving them an opportunity to design and fabricate products using a variety of processes, tools, 	and equipment. Students will learn about technical drawing, properties and preparation of materials, and manufacturing techniques. Student projects may include a robotic challenge, a design challenge, or a fabrication project involving processes such as machining, welding, vacuum forming, or injection moulding. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to manufacturing and will learn about secondary and postsecondary pathways leading to careers in the industry|Prerequisite: None
TDJ2O1|Technological Design, Grade 10, Open|This course provides students with opportunities to apply a design process to meet a variety of technological challenges. Students will research projects, create designs, build models and/or prototypes, and assess products and/or processes using appropriate tools, techniques, and strategies. Student projects may include designs for homes, vehicles, bridges, robotic arms, clothing, or other products. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to technological design, and learn about secondary and postsecondary education and training leading to careers in the field. |Prerequisite: None
TMJ3C1|Manufacturing Technology, Grade 11, College Preparation |This course enables students to develop knowledge and skills through hands-on, project based learning. Students will acquire design, fabrication, and problem-solving skills while using tools and equipment such as lathes, mills, welders computer-aided machines, robots, and control systems. Students may have opportunities to obtain industry-standard certification and training. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to manufacturing and will learn about pathways leading to careers in the industry.|Prerequisite: None
TDJ3M1|Technological Design, Grade 11, University/College|This course examines how technological design is influenced by human, environmental, financial, and material requirements and resources. Students will research, design, build, and assess solutions that meet specific human needs, using working drawings and other communication methods to present their design ideas. They will develop an awareness of environmental, societal, and cultural issues related to technological design, and will explore career opportunities in the field, as well as the college and/or university program requirements for them.|Prerequisite: None
TMJ4C1|Manufacturing Technology, Grade 12, College Preparation|This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to 	machining, welding, print reading, computer numerical control (CNC), robotics, and design. Students will develop proficiency in using mechanical, pneumatic, electronic, and computer control systems in a project-based learning environment and may have opportunities to obtain industry-standard training and certification. Students will expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues and career opportunities in the manufacturing industry|Prerequisite: Manufacturing Technology, Grade 11, College Preparation
TDJ4M1|Technological Design, Grade 12, University/College|This course introduces students to the fundamentals of design advocacy and marketing, while building on their design skills and their knowledge of professional design practices. Students will apply a systematic design process to research, design, build, and assess solutions that meet specific human needs, using illustrations, presentation drawings, and other communication methods to present their designs. Students will enhance their problem solving and communication skills, and explore career opportunities and the postsecondary education and training requirements for them.|Prerequisite: Technological Design, Grade 11, University/College Preparation
